VIS(1)                                                                  VIS(1)



NAME
       vis - Compute visibility (PVS) for a Quake BSP file


SYNOPSIS
       vis [OPTION]... BSPFILE


DESCRIPTION
       vis  is  a  tool  used in the creation of maps for the game Quake.  vis
       looks for a .prt file by stripping the file extension from BSPFILE  (if
       any)  and appending ".prt". vis then calculates the potentially visible
       set (PVS) information before updating the .bsp  file,  overwriting  any
       existing PVS data.

       This  vis  tool  supports  the  PRT2  format for Quake maps with detail
       brushes. See the qbsp documentation for details.

       Compiling a map (without the -fast parameter) can  take  a  long  time,
       even  days or weeks in extreme cases. Vis will attempt to write a state
       file every five minutes so that progress will not be lost in  case  the
       computer needs to be rebooted or an unexpected power outage occurs.


OPTIONS
       -threads n
              Set number of threads explicitly. By default vis will attempt to
              detect the number of CPUs/cores available.

       -fast  Skip detailed calculations and calculate a very loose set of PVS
              data.  Sometimes useful for a quick test while developing a map.

       -level n
              Select a test level from 0 to 4 for detailed visibility calcula-
              tions.  Lower levels are not necessarily faster in in all cases.
              It is not recommended that you change the default  level  unless
              you are experiencing problems.  Default 4.

       -v     Verbose output.

       -vv    Very verbose output.

       -noambientsky
              Disable  ambient sound generation for textures with names begin-
              ning with 'SKY'.

       -noambientwater
              Disable ambient sound generation for textures with names  begin-
              ning with '*WATER' or '*04WATER'.

       -noambientslime
              Disable  ambient sound generation for textures with names begin-
              ning with '*SLIME'.

       -noambientlava
              Disable ambient sound generation for textures with names  begin-
              ning with '*LAVA'.

       -noambient
              Disable all ambient sound generation.


AUTHOR
       Written by Kevin Shanahan (aka Tyrann)
       Based on source provided by id Software
       http://disenchant.net


REPORTING BUGS
       Please send bug reports to tyrann@disenchant.net.
       Improvements to the documentation are welcome and encouraged.


COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2013 Kevin Shanahan
       Copyright (C) 1997 id Software
       License GPLv2+:  GNU GPL version 2 or later
       <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl2.html>.

       This  is  free  software:  you  are free to change and redistribute it.
       There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.


SEE ALSO
       qbsp(1) light(1) bspinfo(1) bsputil(1) quake(6)



TYRUTILS                       2013-04-24 v0.17                         VIS(1)
